odeforAmerica: Brigade 
Old Dominion University

ARTICLE I	NAME 

Section 1.	The name of this organization shall be the Old Dominion University Student Brigade .
Affiliated with the National CodeforAmerica, Brigade program. 

ARTICE II	PURPOSE

Section 1	The purposes of this organization are 
The mission of any local CfA Brigade is to deploy, maintain, and sustain civic technology and open data infrastructure for a place.
We want to make it easy for people to code for America.
We want to make it easy for places to adopt modern civic technology.
We want to make it easy for places to adopt open data infrastructure.
We want to innovate in ways that improve the sustainability of civic technology and infrastructure.
We want to fulfill the overall Code for America mission to “improve the way governments work better for everyone using the people and the power of the web.”



ARTICLE III	

Section 1	This organization is a recognized student organization at Old Dominion  University and adheres to all campus policies as set forth in the ODU Student Organization Handbook

Section 2	[This organization is affiliated with [Code for America Brigade] and adheres to the [Goal and missions of CodeforAmerica Brigade].

Section 3	This organization may establish Standing Rules to govern administrative and procedural matters (such as time and location of meetings, etc.).  Standing Rules shall not conflict with these bylaws. Standing Rules may be adopted, amended, or temporarily suspended by a majority vote present at an organization meeting where a quorum is present (advance notice is not required).

Section 4	The rules contained in the most recent version of Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly Revised shall be the parliamentary authority for this organization and shall govern in all cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with these bylaws and any special rules of order the organization may adopt.


ARTICLE IV	MEMBERSHIP

Section 1	Membership in the organization shall be open to those regularly-enrolled Old Dominion University students. 


ARTICLE V	OFFICERS

Section 1	The officers of the organization shall be the Captain.

Section 2	Powers and Duties of Officers:

	a. 	The Captain shall serve as the chief executive officer of the organization, shall preside at all meetings of the organization and shall prepare the agenda for meetings. The President shall be the official spokesperson of the organization, representing the policies, views, and opinions of the organization in its relations with the campus and community at large.  The President shall appoint all committees and committee chairs. [Optional: The President shall be an ex officio member of all committees.] The President shall have such further powers and duties as may be prescribed by the organization.

	b.	The Vice Captain  shall preside at organization meetings in the absence of the Captain. The Vice Captain shall perform all legal duties assigned by the President.  The Vice Captain shall assume the office of Captain if the office becomes vacant.

	c.	The Treasurer shall handle all financial affairs and budgeting of the organization, maintain all necessary accounting records, and prepare monthly financial reports for the membership. Said records shall be maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Treasurer shall collect and deposit all dues and fees. The Treasurer shall maintain bank accounts in the organization’s name, requiring signatures of both the Treasurer and President for authorized disbursements. 

d. The Secretary shall take minutes at all meetings of the organization, keep these on file, and submit required copies to all organization members.  The Secretary shall be responsible for all organization correspondence and shall keep copies thereof on file. The Secretary shall maintain membership records for the organization.




ARTICLE VI	SELECTION OF OFFICERS

Section 1	The Captain, Vice Captain, Treasurer, Secretary are elected Annually.  Elections are held [at the end of each fall/spring semester] and shall take place at a regularly scheduled meeting of the organization at which a quorum is present. At least one week’s notice shall be provided for any meeting at which an election is to be held.

Section 2	Nominations for officers shall be made at the regular meeting immediately preceding the election. Nominations may also be made from the floor immediately prior to the election for each office. Members may nominate themselves for an office.

Section 3	The officers shall be elected in this order: Secretary, Treasurer, Vice Captain, Captain.

Section 4	Officers shall be elected by majority vote.  [Optional: If no candidate receives a majority vote, a runoff election shall be held between the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes. In the event of a tie, there shall be a revote. If the result of the revote is still a tie, the election shall be decided by the flip of a coin.]

Section 5	Votes shall be cast by secret ballot; however, when there is only one candidate for an office, a motion may be made to elect the candidate by acclamation.


Section 6	Officers shall assume office on Fall of following semester and shall serve for 2 semesters.




ARTICLE VII	MEETINGS

Section 1	Regular meetings shall be scheduled bi monthly  during the academic year.

Section 2	Special meetings may be called by the President or a majority of the Executive Committee. All members must be given a minimum of 24 hours notice prior to the meeting time.

Section 3	Business cannot be conducted unless a quorum of the membership is present.  A quorum for this organization is defined as a majority of the voting membership. [Note: Organizations may choose have a lower quorum, such as one-third, or a specific number of members.]

Section 4	Members must be present to vote. Absentee or proxy voting is not permitted.



ARTICLE VIII	ADVISOR(S)

Section 1	The organization shall appoint an individual employed as a faculty or staff member by Old Dominion University. With option of multiple advisors 


ARTICLE IX	EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Section 1	The Executive Committee shall consist of the elected and appointed officers, with the advisor(s) serving as non-voting member(s).

Section 2	The Executive Committee shall meet weekly during the academic year. Special meetings may be called by the President or a majority of the Executive Committee. All members must be given 24 hours notice of the meeting.  A quorum shall consist of a majority of the Executive Committee members.

Section 3 	When necessary, Executive Committee business can be conducted via email or via online meetings.

Section 4	The Executive Committee shall have general supervision of the affairs of the organization between meetings and is authorized to take action when action must be taken prior to the next meeting.

Section 5	The Executive Committee shall report to the membership all actions taken between meetings.  Except when it is too late to do so (such as when a contract has been executed), any actions taken by the Executive Committee may be rescinded or modified by the membership by a majority vote.


ARTICLE XIII	AMENDMENTS

Section 1	Proposed amendments to these bylaws shall be presented to the membership, in writing, one meeting prior to the meeting where the amendment will be voted upon.	
 
Section 2	Bylaw amendments require approval by two-thirds of the voting members present at a regular meeting.  The amendment shall be effective immediately unless otherwise stipulated in the amendment.

Section 3	A copy of any amendments to these bylaws must be submitted to the Office of Student Life & Leadership Office at Old Dominion University within two weeks after adoption.


These bylaws were adopted on June 20th 2013 and most recently revised on June, 27th,2 2013 .




